# Rebuilding from scratch

This is the third iteration of my website. In the first one I used Jekyll and
GitHub pages, with some hack-y way of doing an blog based on R markdown
documents. I moved from there to using Hugo and blogdown, which streamlined the
R markdown blog aspect a lot. However that whole process of having an RStudio
project for the site and having to launch RStudio, etc., etc., to make even the
slightest change to the site made me not want to do updates.

## Going web 1.0
I decided to rebuild the site as simply as possible, wanting to go back to how
it used to be when the internet wasn't shit and I had a GeoCities website.

The [new web 1.0 iteration](https:://https://github.com/3inar/3inar.github.io)
is designed to have minimal bloat. It's all markdown that I edit within my
existing [vim workflow](https://github.com/3inar/zett.vim). The site is built
entirely as static `.html` using `make`, which mostly just runs pandoc on any
markdown file it comes across, adding some header and footer info. The
style sheet makes only small adjustments to raw, unstyled `.html`. You can see
it's effect on various elements on the [meta page](/meta/).

The most complicated thing on this site is that I import 
[KaTex](https://katex.org/) to render math. I only do this because some of the
shittier browsers don't support [MathML](https://www.w3.org/Math/).

## Why?
My blog was inactive for very long periods of time because I felt that I should
make substantive posts. What I want instead is to have a little 
[digital garden](https://maggieappleton.com/garden) with a lower threshold for
publishing. As the link says:

> A collection of essays, notes, and half-baked explorations I'm always tending
> to.

The biggest drawback with what I have now is that there is no system in place
for an R markdown-based posts. This isn't because it's hard to implement; it's
because of the aesthetics of the resulting build process/workflow. It just
doesn't feel [slippy](https://www.tadiweb.com/). This means that I will not
bring back any R-markdown-based posts from the old blog, unless I suddenly feel
like I'm missing one. Any similar long-form content under the current system
will be more of a hand-crafted, locally sourced thing.
