# Lyngby e06: getting better

This week I have mostly been giving feedback on manuscripts (still ongoing).
Two PhDs have manuscripts that are mostly written, ready for co-author
feedback. A third incoming.

I'm working a new todo list system where I spend some time thinking about how
much time I need to do a given task and then reserving that time in my
calendar. So far it's doing wonders for my guilty conscience. Instead of
constantly thinking about the long todo list and when I should do all these
things I can think "I'm doing it on Thursday," if indeed I think about it at
all. 

I read about this system in 
[this blog post here](https://jeffhuang.com/productivity_text_file/). It made a
lot of sense to me because in fact it is quite close to the system I already
have (mentioned in [[202401171334]]) where every day I try to write down in a
long `.md` what I do. The big addition is the use of the calendar to
keep the todo list, which previously I had in a little book. Coupling the thing
to be done with the time at which to do it has a nice simplicity to it, which
is important in any discipline if I am to have any hope of maintaining it.

I'm still trying to figure out how to be a person with Responsibilities. I
never used to have them before. I had so few things that I could think either
_my friend [Bjørn](https://fjukstad.io/) will know what I should be doing_ or
_if it's important it'll turn up eventually._ And then I could always do the
thing on short notice because I would have so much free time. But no longer. I
started suffering from Responsibilities about the same time we had a child, and
I've been struggling to keep up. But it's getting better.

## Links
* [Think of the reviewer as a reader who will more carefully read your
  article than the average reader](https://academia.stackexchange.com/questions/207991/reviewers-concerns-about-excessive-simulation-results). 
  Which does not necessarily mean that they read it carefully.
* I've been using vim for my R coding lately: 
  [Nvim-R works pretty well](https://github.com/jamespeapen/Nvim-R/wiki/Use). 
  A potential annoyance is that I might want to do other REPLs soon
  and will they have the same key bindings? Of course not.

