# Lyngby Correspondent e02: The Metagame

When I did my PhD I'd have weekly meetings with my main adviser and I would
usually say something like "well I didn't do much since last week." What can
you do with a week?? Depends on how hard you work I suppose. 

Anyway I didn't do much since last week. I am slowly getting a vague familiarity
with relevant literature. The problem with academic literature is that there is
so very much of it. People just keep writing papers. 

I see people present these charts showing that the interest in whateverology is
increasing rapidly as evidenced by rapid increase in number of whateverology
papers in the databases. And I think _yes that's like every field??_ Everyone
has a chart like that! I'd like to see those charts adjusted for the number of
active researchers year by year. My guess is that the per-researcher interest
in whateverology rarely grows rapidly, but since academia is similar to a
pyramid scheme you have to put all these new researchers somewhere. 

While we're discussing the metagame I was interested to read 
[this blog post](https://blog.joss.theoj.org/2019/06/cost-models-for-running-an-online-open-journal)
from the Journal of Open Source Software where they go into what it costs them
to operate and what it would cost if they relied less on volunteers, etc. By
their estimates a for-profit journal could get by with a $140 article
processing charge, which seems very reasonable. I have paid 15 to 20 times this
for the privilege of putting a pdf online, which seems excessive. Where does
the money go? Clearly not to the reviewers.

I'm getting more familiar with my commute and the half-hour bike ride now only
takes me 40-45 minutes. They have these deceptive hills in some parts of
Denmark where it looks completely flat but in fact it a small incline that goes
on forever. My thighs will be **very strong** after all this.

## Links &c.
* [References to dispel common statistical misconceptions](https://discourse.datamethods.org/t/reference-collection-to-push-back-against-common-statistical-myths/1787). 
  I often return to this. Recently it was about testing for normality to check
  if your data meets the assumptions for some other model. It's considered poor
  practice.
* Want to get to a good idea? Why not [start with a bad idea](https://www.todepond.com/wikiblogarden/art/burger-king/)?
* Found a [good album](https://laamaa.bandcamp.com/album/m8) done on the M8
  tracker/sequencer.
