# Notes for Master students

(ยง) When a Master thesis is graded the examiner committee is sent a document
called `important_info.pdf` containing grading criteria to consider. [This
document](inc/important_info.pdf) is quite informative and it is publicly
available, though perhaps not easily so (until now). 

If you look through this document you'll see that your thesis will be graded on
criteria such as theoretical insight, goal description, critical reflection,
structure/language, etc. You'll also see that on some of these points your
supervisor (presumably me) has a say in the grade. These points are in a sense
evaluated **during** your master's. The examiner-evaluated criteria are based
on your thesis itself. You'll see that there are far more of these
examiner-evaluated criteria.

The last couple of pages in `important_info` provide a description of what goes
into the evaluation of, for example, critical reflection, and could serve as a
useful checklist for you to consider when doing your work and writing your
thesis. For example you could ask yourself "do I demonstrate a reasonable
understanding of the value of the results?".

(ยง) Writing is important. This is true for many parts of life, for example a
job application is usually a written document that some kind of assessing
committee will look at and decide if you're worth interviewing. For the thesis
specifically it doesn't matter if your work is technically or scientifically
brilliant if you cannot communicate that clearly through your written thesis.

You can get a good grade with unimpressive work and good writing but you cannot
get a good grade with bad writing. This is perhaps unfortunate, but it is also
true.

(ยง) There is a latex template for theses written at UiT
[here](https://github.com/egraff/uit-thesis). I suggest you use it; I'm not
sure where the templates are for word or whatever else.
