# The year in reading: 2024

I write this at the end of 2025. I reckon if I were to do the year in reading
'25 I would remember my December reading too well: my main criteria for judging
if a book was good are whether i) I can remember it at all and ii) I still
think about it. I guess a criterion iii) is whether I hated reading it or not
(see note on **War and Peace** to be published in Dec. '26). 

I don't include every book from '24; only books I have something to say about.
A book isn't necessarily bad if I leave it out. 

## If I had to choose a favorite
In terms of dry weight **Musashi** by Eiji Yoshikawa can compete with any
Russian classic, but it is a very pleasant read. Perhaps part of the reason is
because it is structured in shortish "episodes" more or less. It's anyway
definitely in the "still thinking about it" category for me.

Musashi's journey from crude and primitive murderer to conscientious and
spiritually well-developed murderer makes a very good and in some ways
inspirational story. I will most likely reread this at some point. 

## Good
I guess there isn't so much to say about Melville's **Moby Dick**, it's kind of
well known? You might have heard about it? I really liked it. Having read
Patrick O'Brian for many years I am more or less immune to seafaring jargon.

**The Brothers Karamazov** by Fyodor Dostoevsky is also well-known. I read it
on a whim, mostly because I could get it on Project Gutenberg and I was
desperate for something to read. I expected not to like it but I really did. I
was skeptical because I read **Crime and Punishment** many years ago and hated
it. I don't think I'd have liked Karamazov in my early 20s either, but I'm
_not_ revisiting C&P.

**The Machinery of Life** by David S Goodsell is a short book about cell
biology. It has _very good_ illustrations.

**The Design of Everyday Things** by Donald Norman has its main premise in the
title. I think this book is at its best when Norman rants about bad design.

I read two books by Nabokov, both excellent: **Pale Fire** and **Pnin**. Pale
fire is a strong contender for the _If I had to choose a favorite_ category.
It's not a straight-forward read: it's a long poem with the entire story hidden
in the narrator's critical apparatus for said poem. I suspect you'd get a lot
out of rereading this one.

Another strong contender for _If I had to choose_ is **Watership Down** by
Richard Adams. I don't actually have so much to say about it, it's just good.

I read a couple of Ursula K. Le Guin collections. They were good but I don't
remember exactly which pieces were in them. I don't think I ever disliked
anything I read by Le Guin.


## Miscellaneous

I wanted to like Donna Tartt's **The Goldfinch**. Or rather I expected to like
it, because I really liked **Secret History**. But I did not like Goldfinch.
It's probably a good book but for some reason I couldn't care about the
characters nor what happened to them nor what happened to the Goldfinch itself.

Two nonfiction books:

* **The Internet Is Not What You Think It Is**, Justin E. H. Smith. I can't
  remember what the main thesis of this book is nor much of what it said, but I
  still have an idea that it was interesting.
* **The Mushroom at the End of the World**, Anna Lowenhaupt Tsing. It's about
  Matsutake mushrooms. Seems they grow best in forests that have been
  disturbed by humans. An interesting but somehow challenging read, probably
  because of my own limitations.

I reread **Hogfather** by Terry Pratchett in December. It's the only Christmas
book I own. Pratchett for me is beyond good and bad. I have read and reread the
Discworld books regularly for like 20 years at this point.



