#  Bits of string: compositional data

(§) The article [A flexible Bayesian tool for CoDa mixed models](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11222-024-10427-3) [@Martinez-Minaya_2024] looks promising; it frames compositional count data in a way so that it's possible to fit by using INLA. 

(§) Dimension of of log ratio vectors matters. Compare the CLR $(-1, 1, 0)$ with
$(-1, 1, 0, 0, \ldots)$  (a hundred zeros repeated). The former is roughly
$(0.09, 0.67, 0.24)$ in the simplex, while the latter is roughly 
$(0.004, 0.03, 0.01, 0.01, \ldots)$, which is practically uniform. The log 
ratios between coordinates 1 and 2 (or 1 and 3) remain the same however.

(§) Suppose we're simulating (count) data where a subcomposition made up of
$n_1$ components is active and the remaining $n_2$ components are inactive. We
could start with log ratios (not centered, but relative to some unknown
denominator) and set the inactive variables to all-0, so we have a log ratio
vector $x = (x_1, \ldots, x_{n_1}, 0, 0, \ldots, 0)$. What size should $x_i$
be?

As the note above suggests this should depend on dimension. We could decide
that on average we want to have some set proportion, $p$, of counts to fall in
the active subcomposition; let's say $p = 1/4$. Then the probabilities (for a
multinomial draw) corresponding to the active parts should sum to $1/4$. Since
we invert log ratios by $\text{lr}^{-1}(x) = \mathcal C(e^{x_1}, \ldots
,e^{x_{n_1}}, 1,1, \ldots, 1)$, where $\mathcal C$ is the closure operator, it
seems that we want $3\sum e^{x_i} = n_2\ (*)$ on average.

We'll draw independently $X_i \sim N(0, \sigma)$ and choose $\sigma$ so that
$(*)$ above is true on average. 
If $Y \sim N(\mu, \sigma)$ then $\text{E} e^Y = e^{\mu + \sigma^2/2}$ 
(cf. [this](https://math.stackexchange.com/a/176330/121200)) so if we take the
expectation of $(*)$ we get 

$$
3n_1e^{\sigma^2/2} = n_2 \implies \sigma = \sqrt{2\ln\frac{n_2}{3n_1}}.
$$

(§) The sum-to-one constraint forces a negative correlation (something goes up
and something else must go down) but the effect might be ignored in high
dimension under mild assumptions. From @townes_2019, if we assume

$$
y \sim \text{multinomial}(\pi, n)
$$

with $y = (y_1, \ldots, y_k)$ and $\pi = (\pi_1, \ldots, \pi_k)$, the marginals 
are 

$$
y_i \sim \text{binomial}(\pi_i, n),
$$

with $\mathbb E y_i = \mu_i = n\pi_i$, and 
$\text{var}(y_i) = n\pi_i(1-\pi_i) = \mu_i - \mu_i^2/n$. 
This last identity hints at the well-known small $p$ big $n$ Poisson horse kick
approximation to the binomial.

More interesting for our purpose is the expression for the covariance between two
compositional parts,

$$
\text{cor}(y_i, y_j) = \sqrt{\frac{\pi_i\pi_j}{(1-\pi_i)(1-\pi_j)}},
$$

which if both $\pi_i$ and $\pi_j$ are small is practically zero. In some
settings it might be quite reasonable to assume that $\pi_i \approx 1/k$, ie
they are roughly of similar magnitude. Then $\pi_i$ gets quite small as $k$ (the
dimension) grows.

**Note to self:** But big Q what if we assume some prior over $\pi$ and this
one has a covariance also? Where does it go

